# SDG Guess Quest

## United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
SDG 4: Quality education
SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals

## Project Idea
My project, SDG Guess Quest, is a mobile app that combines the classic 'Guess Who' game format with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to educate and engage users in an interactive, fun, and educational experience while raising awareness about global sustainability challenges.

## Project background/Business Opportunity
In a world marked by pressing global challenges, raising awareness and fostering collective action is imperative. My project, SDG Guess Quest, is driven by the urgency to engage and educate the youth of North America about the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These 17 goals, addressing issues from climate change to poverty eradication, serve as a roadmap for a sustainable and equitable future. However, the need for innovative and interactive solutions to bring these goals to the forefront of public consciousness has never been greater.

The game combines the beloved 'Guess Who' format with the vital mission of spreading awareness about the SDGs. By gamifying learning and social interaction, I aim to inspire a new generation of global citizens who are not only aware of the SDGs but actively committed to achieving them. The innovation lies in the fusion of entertainment and education, leveraging technology to transform abstract concepts into tangible learning experiences. This project seeks to bridge the gap between individual understanding and collective action, aligning with the global call for a more sustainable and inclusive world.

## Vlogs

[Project plan/intialization](https://youtu.be/fMiPJj4S9OI)
[Commercial](https://youtu.be/AllsexQlys4)

## Running the program
Download the flutter sdk, navigate to the code folder, and run with 'Flutter run'

## How to Play
The final submission of my application features a home screen that allows the user to click the ‘Learn More’ button where they are able to read through what the UN SDGs are and what the user can do to make a small change in their lives to better support each goal. This allows the user to reflect on how they are currently living and pursue sustainability beyond the gameplay. The other button allows the user to start a game. Upon starting a game, the user is prompted to select one of 16 SDG game cards that their opponent will have to guess. Each of the SDG card designs represents multiple SDGs and upon clicking one when not in the select a card or flip a card state, a popover will appear explaining how the design correlates to the related SDGs, what the SDGs are, and the actionable steps the user can take to live more sustainably. After selecting a card that the opponent will guess, they are able to ask a question about their opponents card. This question is meant to be open ended because a 9 year old may ask a question that focuses on what the card designs look like such as “does your card have multiple characters in it?” Alternatively, an older user may ask a more sophisticated question geared towards applying their knowledge of the SDGs such as “does your card involve the use of clean energy?” This method of questioning would allow the user to convert information to knowledge and wisdom by applying what they have just learned about the SDGs. Once the user submits their question, the turn will switch to player 2. A new screen will be shown that covers the card content in order to avoid cheating. The screen prompts player 2 to double tap the screen in order to play their turn. Additionally, an interesting fact about sustainability is also shown on the screen,  allowing for a third method of learning. Once player 2 double taps their screen, they are prompted to select a card that their opponent will guess. Once they have selected the card, a popover will appear prompting them to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to their opponent’s question. After doing this, they can ask their opponent a question. Once it is player 1’s turn, they will be prompted to answer player 2’s question and they will see the answer to their question. This will help them decide which cards to flip over. Flipped cards represent the cards that the player has eliminated as they don’t match the criteria of their opponent’s card. The game continues like this until one of the players guesses the other character’s card correctly by pressing the guess button followed by the card that they believe their opponent has. There is also a scoreboard in the top left corner of the screen which shows how many cards each player has remaining. The less cards someone has remaining, the closer they are to victory. Additionally, in the top right, the user can click on the past questions/answers icon which will trigger a drawer to open revealing all past asked questions and answers including any guesses of cards. Upon winning a game, all buttons will be disabled and a message will be shown to the user saying they have won. 
